COVER LETTER

I am a data engineer with 5 years of experience, have a M.S. in Aerospace Engineering, +5 years of Python experience, 5 years experience with processing big data with Spark on Databricks, and may one day buy a ticket to Mars. We need to advance the future and enable life to become multiplanetary, and Starlink will help in transforming this vision into a reality. And I can increase the likelihood of Starlink's success with my skills.

Thank you for your consideration,
Brendan

~~~

COVER LETTER FORMAT

(i) Who you are, what you want, and what you believe in.
(ii) Transition
(iii) Skill & Qualification Match
(vi) Why do you want to work there?
(v) Conclusion

~~~

ANALYZING THE JOB DESCRIPTION

Bachelor's degree in computer science, data science, engineering, math, physics, or scientific discipline; OR 2+ years of professional experience building software
- BS and MS in aero eng. 5 years as a data engineer.

Experience in full stack development, software engineering, data engineering, or data science
- Trained data scientist - General Assembly 2018. Data engineer at Chubb for past 5 years. Daily databricks (spark) experience.

Develop highly reliable and scalable data pipelines to empower engineers across SpaceX
- Created data pipelines that have +18 month uptime with no production issues via functional programming style

Create new applications that improve how the business at SpaceX operates
- Create simple data visualizations in databricks (spark) to give non-technical audience a better understanding of data

Collaborate with peers on architecture, design, and code reviews
- Lead data pipeline project where I created the architecture with a team and implemented the design

Programming experience in Python, C#, Java, Scala, Go or similar languages
- +5 years with Python

Experience working with in-stream, big data processing and analytics using Apache Kafka, Spark, Flink, SQL or similar
- Spark structured streaming with joins. Batch processing with big data using Spark (databricks (spark))

Experience with relational and non-relational databases, data lakes e.g. HBase, Hive, Delta Lake, PostgreSQL, CockroachDB or similar
- Delta Lake and PostgreSQL

Experience with data exploration tools like Grafana, Jupyter Notebooks, Metabase, PowerBI or similar
- Jupyter Notebook and databricks data vis UI

Good understanding of version control, testing, continuous integration, build, deployment and monitoring
- 

Some front-end experience in Angular, React, or similar JavaScript framework
- Created dev UIs using Python's Flask and HTML

Good understanding of statistics, machine learning algorithms and frameworks
- Data science bootcamp taught supervised and unsupervised ML algorithms and stats. Used random forest classification, PCA, and k means clustering to create value at current company.

~~~

IDENTIFYING WHAT TO INCLUDE IN YOUR COVER LETTER

What is the company’s mission?
Ultimate goal of enabling human life on Mars

What problem are they trying to solve?
Internet everywhere on Earth

What’s the product?
Starlink. Talk about the RV version?

What’s unique about this company compared to its competitors?
They can build the satellites and launch them on their rockets. Move to Mars for $500k.

What are some policies or values that the company has that they feature on their homepage?
To advance the future. Innovation, commitment, visionary mindset, and conserving the planet - "solutions that can offer sustainable and energy-efficient solutions to release the pressure humans have been inflicting upon the ecosystem"

